# ML_Projects

This is a repository that showcases multiple Machine Learning projects I have completed. They include clustering, neural networks, etc.

### Clustering Project
The clustering project uses data on NBA players' stats from there individual seasons dating back to the 1980s. I used both simple basketball stats and all stats including advance statistics as the features. The amount and type of features did not change the output of the types of clusters that were forming. A more in depth analysis is written at the end of the python file describing the summary of what the algorithm decided the cluster the players into. In short, the players were clustered in the type of role they had on the team, not necessarily just position wise like all-around contributor (Lebron James, Larry Bird, Nikola Jokic) all-nba type of season, a role player season that contributed in the rotation but was not the main focus on offense, or a big man sort of role that encompasses strictly playing in the low post and not any outside presense on the offense (for example, Shaq or Rudy Gobert).

### Neural Network
The neural network is ran on the same dataset as the clustering project. The neural network's job is to classify the players on one of the 5 core positions in basketball, [PG, SG, SF, PF, C]. The neural network was only getting about 70% on the training split and 68% on the validation split. I believe it was low because towards the more recent years in basketball, players will be classified on their position just based on size and defensive metrics. Like there is usually only one PG on the court at a time but that PG might play like a SG if the main ball handler is the SF. SO in the more recent ears, positions became more meaningless which makes classifying players on their position more difficult now.
